---
title: "Mother of Ethan Ampadu's son releases extraordinary response to Leeds statement"
date: "2025-05-16T00:00:00+03:00"
draft: false
categories: ["news"]
tags: []
image: "https://i2-prod.mirror.co.uk/article35239788.ece/ALTERNATES/s1200b/0_Screenshot-2025-05-16-at-161725.jpg"
author: "Jacob Leeks"
description: ""
source_url: "https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/leeds-united-ethan-ampadu-statement-35239393"
source_name: "Unknown Source" # Front Matter'a source_name eklendi
---
The mother of Ethan Ampadu's child has slammed Leeds United for 'stating lies' in their statement about a picture of his son wearing a Galatasaray kit. There remains an angry feeling from Leeds fans towards the Turkish side. That is due to the murders of two Whites fans - Christopher Loftus and Kevin Speight - in Istanbul ahead of the 2000 UEFA Cup semi-final between the two sides. A picture has emerged in recent days of Ampadu's son wearing a Gala shirt. Leeds quickly attempted to distance their captain from the image. They issued a statement insisting the Wales international was “sensitive to” the potential impact of the picture on the families of the two supporters who were murdered. The statement said: “Leeds are aware of an image circulating online of Ethan Ampadu’s son. Ethan separated from his partner several months ago and has no responsibility for the image in question. \\"Ethan is aware of and sensitive to the tragic loss within the Loftus and Speight families. The club asks for Ethan’s privacy to be respected in what is a difficult time for him personally. \\"Our captain has been a leader on and off the pitch this season, demonstrating his commitment to the club, its history, and the broader Leeds community. Ethan has the full support of everybody at Leeds. The club will be making no further comment.” But his former partner has now hit back at Leeds, insisting Ampadu was fully aware of the picture's existence. She also expressed her condolences to the families of the murdered fans. Saara Sa wrote on Instagram : \\"My condolences are with the families of the two people who passed away in Istanbul. I am Turkish and our son is part Turkish. Galatasaray is my family's supporting home team and has been for years. \\"We are the parents of our child and Ethan was aware of the photo. I would appreicate if Leeds United Football Club would not portray a false narrative by making a statement stating lies.\\" Ampadu, 24, has found a home at Elland Road after embarking on four different loan spells away from Chelsea , for whom he played 12 times after joining from Exeter City as a 16-year-old. After temporary spells at RB Leipzig, Sheffield United, Venezia and Spezia, he joined Leeds on a permanent basis in 2023. He was captain of Daniel Farke's side as they won the Championship title this season. Speaking after clinching promotion, Ampadu said: \\"The staff and the players who were at Wembley felt on the bottom of the world that day because we didn't achieve what we set out to, so to be put that right, albeit a year too late, is a sweet moment. \\"We're a team full of leaders, a team full of characters. We've got a strong mentality. There's been upsets and some games we haven't been happy with but I think it's testament to the lads and the staff to keep going every day no matter the results. \\"This club's really special. Everybody who puts on the shirt knows it's a massive honour to play for this club and to represent the city and the fans so to celebrate in front of them and with them made it really special.\\" Join our new WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Mirror Football content. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.