---
title: "Rangers transfer news as big spenders join Matija Frigan chase and Vaclav Cerny loan terms ‘revealed’"
date: "2025-06-12T00:00:00+03:00"
draft: false
categories: ["news"]
tags: []
image: "https://i2-prod.dailyrecord.co.uk/article35378185.ece/ALTERNATES/s1200b/2_frig.jpg"
author: "Anthony Evans"
description: ""
source_url: "https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/football/football-transfer-news/rangers-transfer-news-big-spenders-35378140"
source_name: "Unknown Source" # Front Matter'a source_name eklendi
---
Interest in Rangers target Matija Frigan is heating up - with the Westerlo frontman now linked with a reunion with one of his former managers who has taken up the reins at an English Championship club. Record Sport understands that the Croatian striker is a summer target for new Gers sporting director Kevin Thelwell , who is keen to make his mark at Ibrox. Frigan joined Westerlo from Rijeka in 2023 and has scored 19 goals across his two seasons so far in Belgum. However, Record Sport has also learned that newly promoted Bundesliga side Hamburg are also in the race to land their forward, and are willing to launch an £8.5 million bid that could blow Russell Martin 's side out of the water. And reports in Croatia now state that English second tier side Hull City are also very keen on Frigan. The Tigers have just appointed Sergej Jakirovic - who previously led Dinamo Zagreb to the league title in 2024 - as their new head coach. Jakirovic previously worked with Frigan at Rijeka and it was under his management in the second half of the 2022/23 season that the Gers target enjoyed his best scoring campaign to date, netting 15 times in 32 matches in all competitions. And the EFL club are said to be hopeful that the previous working relationship between the duo could give them the edge in a potential transfer tussle. Hull were taken over by Turkish media moguls Acun Medya in 2022 and splahed out nearly £30million on transfer fees last season as the Championship side only avoided the drop to EFL League One by virtue of goal difference. One man who Rangers fans would love to see back at Ibrox next season is Vaclav Cerny. But the chances of the Czech Republic star pulling on the Light Blues' jersey once again is looking increasingly unlikely, with the returning Wolfsburg winger not short of suitors. The Bundesliga side are said to have placed a £9million price tag on Cerny's head, having signed the 27-year-old for £8million from FC Twente in 2023. Turkish outfit Trabzonspor are very keen on the player, and are reportedly willing to cash in on their £9.3million-rated Ukrainian international Oleksandr Zubkov in order to fund a deal for Cerny -who is said to be looking for a salary of around £2.9million a year. Haber61 claim that the Super Lig team will submit an initial loan offer to Wolfsburg with an obligation to buy next summer. Follow Record Sport on Twitter , Facebook and Instagram for all of the up-to-the minute breaking news, video and audio on the SPFL, the Scotland national team and beyond. You can get all the news you need on our dedicated Rangers and Celtic pages, and sign up to our newsletters to make sure you never miss a beat throughout the season. We're also on WhatsApp where we bring all the latest breaking news and transfer gossip directly to you phone. Join our Rangers community here and our Celtic community here . Tune in to Hotline Live every Sunday to Thursday and have your say on the biggest issues in Scottish football and listen to Record Sport's newest podcast, Game On , every Friday for your sporting fix, all in bitesize chunks.