---
title: "Struggling 'Jose Mourinho player' told to leave Man Utd - 'I feel really sorry for him'"
date: "2025-05-21T00:00:00+03:00"
draft: false
categories: ["news"]
tags: []
image: "https://i2-prod.mirror.co.uk/article35264844.ece/ALTERNATES/s1200b/3_Fenerbahce-v-Ikas-Eyupspor-Turkish-Super-Lig.jpg"
author: "Patrick Austen-Hardy"
description: ""
source_url: "https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/news/man-utd-europa-league-mourinho-35264608"
source_name: "Unknown Source" # Front Matter'a source_name eklendi
---
Former Manchester United star Phil Jones believes Rasmus Hojlund would benefit from an Old Trafford exit. Hojlund, 22, has endured an arduous second campaign on the red side of Manchester, where he has failed to justify his price-tag. Since the Red Devils paid Atalanta £72million for his services in 2023 , the Dane has struggled for consistency in the United frontline. This season, he has only mustered ten goals and four assists in 50 appearances in all competitions, with nine of his goal contributions coming in the Europa League . Amorim was flitting between Hojlund and summer signing Joshua Zirkzee, until the latter picked up an injury that ruled him out for the rest of the campaign . Jones, who was part of Sir Alex Ferguson's squad that last won the Premier League , believes Hojlund may be better suited under Jose Mourinho. While speaking to OLBG , Jones described the Scandinavian forward as: \\"A typical Jose Mourinho type of player - typical No.9.\\" The ex-Blackburn Rovers defender then added: \\"It’s a difficult one, I feel really sorry for him (Hojlund). It's obviously been a difficult season for him, but I always find it's difficult for a No. 9 in a difficult season. \\"He's probably not getting the chances, you know, the seven, eight chances a game. He's feeding off one or two that might come into him in the 70th minute, and he's got to produce. \\"It hasn't quite happened for him yet. It's been difficult for him, but I think if he were to move on, he would probably benefit from that. A bit like Marcus (Rashford), it's a fresh start for him. \\"It's a difficult one for Rasmus Hojlund. What I would say is, I think that Man United will be looking for another No. 9. Maybe that would take a bit of the pressure off him as well if he can manage his minutes between the two No. 9s.\\" Mourinho left United midway through the 2018-19 campaign after being given his marching orders by the club. Having managed Tottenham Hotspur and AS Roma, Mourinho is now in charge of Turkish giants Fenerbahce. Interestingly, Turkish outlet Sozcu recently claimed Hojlund was being eyed as a potential signing for Mourinho at the Sukru Saracoglu Stadium. There have also been suggestions that United manager Ruben Amorim may want to bring in his own forward, having inherited Hojlund and Zirkzee from Erik ten Hag's reign. The Red Devils have been linked with a move for Ipswich Town striker Liam Delap. The ex-Manchester City forward is believed to have a release clause worth around £30m. He has impressed for the East Anglians this year, netting 12 goals and contributing two assists, despite playing for a side who were convincingly relegated this season. United have also been mentioned as a potential destination for Sporting Lisbon forward Viktor Gyokeres. The Swedish striker starred under Amorim before the United boss left the Portuguese giants to take up the reins at Old Trafford. Join our new MAN UTD WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Manchester United content from Mirror Football. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.