---
title: "Türkiye's new war on faith: Erdoğan targets a “second FETÖ”"
date: "2025-05-26T00:00:00+03:00"
draft: false
categories: ["news"]
tags: []
image: "https://en.trend.az/media/2025/05/26/images.jpg"
author: "Fuad Akhundov"
description: ""
source_url: "https://en.trend.az/azerbaijan/politics/4048810.html"
source_name: "Unknown Source" # Front Matter'a source_name eklendi
---
Türkiye has entered a new phase in its long battle for control
over the state—not against armed insurgents or opposition parties,
but against a covert, deeply embedded religious network that has
operated for decades behind a mask of piety. On the morning of May
15, 2025, the country woke up to headlines announcing sweeping
arrests and raids. The target: the Süleymancı community—a religious
order that has, until now, largely operated in the shadows, but
whose reach, discipline, and political sophistication have long
invited comparison to the once-powerful, now-outlawed FETÖ

The arrest of four key figures, including a senior member of the
judiciary, wasn’t just a legal maneuver—it was a thunderous strike
at the heart of a clandestine structure accused of running a
parallel state apparatus under the guise of religious education and
charity work.

The night before the crackdown, President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan
delivered a speech before lawmakers from his ruling Justice and
Development Party (AKP). Without naming names, he issued what many
saw as an unmistakable ultimatum. He condemned a \\"dark
organization\\" allegedly tied to foreign intelligence, embedded in
Türkiye's courts, business world, religious institutions, and
bureaucracy. The message was razor-sharp and unmistakably

Nobody in Türkiye needed a decoder ring to figure it out.
Analysts, journalists, and insiders immediately knew who Erdoğan
meant: the Süleymancı movement. One of the country’s most insular
and disciplined religious communities had just lost its political
immunity. The president’s rhetoric was soon followed by forceful
action. The operation marked not just a law enforcement
campaign—but a major inflection point in Türkiye's campaign to
reclaim sovereignty over its own institutional backbone.

Who Are the Süleymancıs?

The Süleymancı community is more than a conservative Sufi order.
It’s a sprawling, transnational network with its own schools,
dormitories, charities, and ideological playbook—a quasi-state
embedded within the Turkish Republic and among its global diaspora.
With roots stretching back to the 1920s, it has evolved from a
pious brotherhood into a powerful sociopolitical force, influencing
everything from education policy to bureaucratic appointments and
even Türkiye's foreign policy rhetoric.

At the center of this movement stands Süleyman Hilmi Tunahan, a
revered Islamic scholar and graduate of Istanbul’s Fatih madrasah.
Following Atatürk’s secularist reforms and the banning of
traditional Islamic schools, Tunahan began secretly teaching the
Quran, laying the foundation for a community defined by secrecy,
hierarchy, and resilience.

The 1950s brought liberalization under Prime Minister Adnan
Menderes, giving the Süleymancı movement space to go public with
parts of its operations. Their real growth, however, came after the
1980 military coup, when the regime quietly encouraged religious
organizations to balance the secular elite. It was during this era
that the Süleymancıs morphed into a state within a state, building
parallel structures of authority and influence.

According to Türkiye's Ministry of National Education and the
Directorate of Religious Affairs (Diyanet), by 2024, the Süleymancı
network operated at least 300 affiliated educational institutions.
These include Quran courses, dormitories for teenage boys known as
“yurtlar,” and vakıfs—private religious foundations controlling the
network’s financial infrastructure.

In Istanbul alone, there are some 80 such institutions, known
for their strict internal discipline, emphasis on Arabic-language
theology, and self-contained culture. Prosecutorial investigations
between 2020 and 2023 uncovered disturbing allegations of physical
punishment, ideological indoctrination, and the deliberate
isolation of youth from the outside world.

Erdoğan’s Message: No More Parallel States

The symbolism of Erdoğan’s crackdown cannot be overstated.
Türkiye has been down this road before—with FETÖ, the Gülenist
network accused of orchestrating the failed 2016 coup. The trauma
of that event still hangs heavy over Turkish politics. The
president has since pledged never to allow another covert power
structure to operate under his watch.

By targeting the Süleymancıs, Erdoğan is making it clear:
loyalty to the state cannot be conditional, negotiable, or quietly
outsourced to cloistered religious hierarchies. The war is no
longer just about ideology—it’s about control, legitimacy, and the
state’s monopoly over influence. In today’s Türkiye, that’s a fight
to the finish.

The Shadow Beyond the Border

The Süleymancı movement isn’t just a domestic phenomenon. Over
the years, it has quietly extended its reach far beyond Türkiye's
borders, evolving into a global web of affiliated organizations.
According to a report by Türkiye's National Intelligence
Organization (MIT) and findings from a parliamentary committee on
destructive sects, the group operates more than 100 foreign
outposts under various names—from educational foundations to
cultural associations.

Germany has become a particular stronghold. The country’s
Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV) has
identified at least 36 community centers tied to the movement, with
ties to religious schools, student dormitories, and madrasas in
Berlin, Cologne, Munich, and Hamburg. In the U.K. and Austria, the
Süleymancı have collaborated with Muslim associations under the
banner of integration programs, but insiders say the real purpose
was to build insular enclaves—spaces where young people were
groomed to embrace ideological loyalty to the Turkish state and
spiritual leaders in Istanbul.

At its core, the movement preaches a deeply conservative brand
of Islamic traditionalism, fused with rigid institutional
discipline. Süleyman Hilmi Tunahan, the movement’s founder, is
revered within the community as a reformer of the faith, and
today’s leadership claims direct spiritual lineage. The current top
figure, Alihan Kuriş, is a charismatic operator seen as the brain
behind the network’s personnel strategy and financial coordination,
managing operations through a close circle of trusted
lieutenants.

One of the more telling features of the group is its lifelong
loyalty model. Youths who pass through the Süleymancı dormitory
system—known as yurtlar—are expected to maintain ties with the
organization for life. This quasi-oath ensures a pipeline of
ideologically aligned individuals, embedded across state and
private sectors, without the need for formal membership rolls. It’s
a playbook strikingly similar to the one used by Fethullah Gülen to
build the FETÖ network, albeit with a more subdued and conservative

The movement’s administrative structure is built around regional
coordinators and supervisors funded by central foundations. Most
financial operations run through registered charities, framed as
educational or cultural efforts. According to internal documents
from Türkiye's Ministry of Interior, in 2023 alone, the movement’s
related foundations reported a combined turnover of roughly 1.4
billion Turkish lira—around $70 million at the time.

Unlike the Gülenists, the Süleymancıs have never sought
visibility. Their influence in the state apparatus was subtle,
deliberate, and often went undetected—until now. Over the years,
they quietly infiltrated sensitive institutions: the Ministry of
Interior, the judiciary, the tax authority, the education system,
even the diplomatic corps. According to İbrahim Usta, former head
of HR at the Ministry of Justice, dozens of prosecutors and judges
in the early 2020s were found to have trained in Süleymancı dorms.
These ties were rarely documented but widely acknowledged in
unofficial circles.

Former AKP lawmaker Fatih Süleyman Denizolgun says he tried to
raise the alarm as early as 2018, warning about the group’s growing
presence in critical nodes of power. At the time, the ruling party
opted to avoid confrontation with such an entrenched network. But
after the fall of Gülen in 2016, President Erdoğan began a slow,
calculated purge of other religious structures deemed capable of
building “states within the state.”

So when the crackdown came in May 2025, insiders weren’t
surprised. After Erdoğan effectively painted a target on the group
in his May 14 address, the follow-up was swift and precise.
Authorities detained not just religious figures, but individuals
linked to the judiciary, finance sector, business elite, and
political circles. The strategy mirrored the FETÖ takedown: isolate
the operatives, freeze the funding, discredit the brand, and bring
down the structure through legal and media pressure.

On the same day, NGOs in several European capitals issued public
statements accusing Ankara of “religious cleansing.” But for
Turkish authorities, this is not about faith—it’s about
sovereignty. It’s about reasserting control over subterranean
networks that have quietly sculpted power structures from behind
the scenes for decades.

In that light, the Süleymancı case is just the latest chapter in
Turkey’s broader fight to dismantle the “deep state” and re-center
power within the official institutions of the republic. The only
question that remains: how many more of these silent networks lie
dormant within the Turkish bureaucracy—and does the regime have the
resolve to finish the job?

The Hidden Elite

The history of religious-political brotherhoods in Türkiye is a
history written in shadows. Behind the façade of official
secularism lies a deeper, more elusive story—one of quiet networks
wielding enormous, often unseen influence. Among these subterranean
forces, none have proven as resilient or as quietly pervasive as
the Süleymancı movement. Over the decades, this insular religious
order has built not just a parallel system of education and
spiritual instruction—but a stealth apparatus that has burrowed
into the core of the Turkish state.

A 2019 report from Turkey’s Directorate of Religious Affairs
(Diyanet) paints a striking portrait of the movement. Described as
rigidly hierarchical and closed to outsiders, the Süleymancıs
outwardly profess loyalty to official Islam, but maintain their own
doctrinal quirks that border on sectarianism. The report—widely
circulated in academic and bureaucratic circles—highlights their
embrace of the so-called “Noah’s Ark” ideology, a belief that only
members of their community are among the spiritually “saved.” One
tangible expression of this is their refusal to pray behind imams
who do not belong to their order—a stance that runs counter to the
dominant Hanafi school in Turkey and underscores their theological
separatism.

This strain of religious isolationism hasn’t gone unnoticed.
Since the early 2000s, reports from Türkiye's state institutions,
including the pro-government think tank SETA and the Presidential
Academy of Public Administration, have flagged the Süleymancıs as a
force operating behind the scenes—nominally apolitical, but with
clear influence over the bureaucracy, local governments, and even
the national legislature.

The movement’s political footprint began to emerge in the late
1980s, first via minor parties, and then more aggressively through
mainstream political vehicles. Analyses of the 1991, 1995, and 1999
parliamentary elections reveal Süleymancı-linked candidates
embedded within the ranks of the Welfare Party (Refah Partisi), the
Motherland Party (Anavatan Partisi), the Justice Party (Adalet
Partisi), and even the secularist Republican People’s Party (CHP).
As Professor Necmeddin Kaya of Bilkent University put it, “The
Süleymancıs weren’t playing to control the system—they were playing
to infiltrate it.”

That long game paid off during the AKP era. As President Erdoğan
waged war on the military elite and secular judiciary, religious
orders like the Süleymancıs gained unprecedented access to state
power. But as former AKP lawmaker Mehmet Metiner admitted in a 2023
interview on A Haber, “While we were focused on taking down Gülen,
we failed to see that other, more discreet religious networks had
moved in to fill the vacuum.”

Nowhere was that shift more evident than within the Ministry of
Interior. Furkan Sezer, a former Istanbul police official who fled
to the Netherlands in 2021, provided explosive testimony to a
Turkish parliamentary inquiry the following year. In an 88-page
report, Sezer alleged that by 2020, as much as 20 percent of senior
police leadership had ties to the Süleymancı network. He described
a structured, quasi-corporate system of career advancement based
not on merit, but on allegiance to the brotherhood.

Sezer’s claims were partially corroborated by an internal audit
from the Ministry of Interior’s inspector general in 2021. In
provinces like Kocaeli, Kayseri, and Antalya, officials discovered
graduates of Süleymancı-funded Quran courses occupying high-level
posts—bypassing competitive hiring processes entirely. Leaked
emails and internal memos revealed the existence of “unofficial
candidate lists” approved outside of the state’s formal personnel

The revelations prompted closed-door hearings in parliament.
While much of the content remains classified, opposition newspaper
BirGün later published excerpts of internal memos
documenting direct pressure on hiring committees and
religious-themed corporate events allegedly used to coordinate
appointments.

But the most alarming nexus may be the judiciary. A 2024
investigation by the media consortium Medya Atlası
identified at least 47 judges and prosecutors appointed between
2017 and 2023 who had trained in Süleymancı-run institutions. One
piece, titled Tasnifli Adalet (“Classified Justice”),
revealed that high-profile court rulings had been shaped by actors
reportedly in close contact with Alihan Kuriş—the current head of

Kuriş himself, the grandson of a close disciple of founder
Süleyman Tunahan, is increasingly viewed as a power player in his
own right. Between 2020 and 2024, he made multiple appearances at
closed-door business forums co-hosted with Türkiye's export-import
associations—suggesting that the movement’s reach now extends
beyond religion and government into the world of big capital.
Former MP Fatih Süleyman Denizolgun was blunt in his assessment:
“My brother Alihan wasn’t building a religious community. He was
building a new vertical of power—one that answers to neither
Diyanet nor the government. He knew Gülen’s time was up, and he
wanted that throne.”

Taken together, the evidence paints a chilling picture. The
Süleymancıs are not merely a brotherhood or a network of Quran
schools. They are a high-functioning, semi-clandestine loyalty
machine—embedded deep inside Türkiye's state structures. They have
no interest in public office. They’ve learned to rule from the
backseat. And that, perhaps, is what makes them more dangerous than
any party, any imam, or any overt political actor.

No More Shadows

From Ankara’s perspective, what’s unfolding isn’t just a power
play—it’s a matter of national survival. In an era defined by
volatile global realignments, Türkiye is working to consolidate its
chain of command. Parallel centers of influence, especially those
outside the framework of state control, are no longer seen as
merely troublesome. They’re systemic vulnerabilities.

This is especially critical as Türkiye strengthens its presence
in sensitive domains like defense, cybersecurity, energy, and
geoeconomics. The infiltration of ideologically autonomous actors
into these fields isn’t just a bureaucratic glitch—it’s a potential
conduit for foreign influence, data leaks, and strategic

The reaction from the Süleymancı network was telling. In the
days following President Erdoğan’s warning shot and the first wave
of arrests, panic rippled through the system. Foundations and
companies tied to the community scrambled to dissolve subsidiaries,
transfer assets, and shutter local branches. According to Türkiye's
Commercial Registry Directorate, at least 24 foundations and 17
businesses linked to Kuriş and his inner circle were either shut
down or restructured within 72 hours. The message was clear: this
wasn’t a temporary crackdown—it was a systematic dismantling.

The End of Parallel States

The Erdoğan government isn’t just issuing ultimatums—it’s
drawing a historical line in the sand. Türkiye is signaling the
close of an era: there will be no more power-sharing with informal
authorities. The president’s intervention is not a show of brute
force—it’s an act of state self-preservation.

This isn’t a war on faith. It’s a defense of sovereignty—one
redefined in the 21st century not just by borders, but by the
monopoly on decision-making. When unregulated power structures
begin to control recruitment pipelines, influence strategic assets,
and insulate themselves from accountability, they cease to be
benign spiritual communities. They become alternative states.

And so, the crackdown on the Süleymancıs is more than a law
enforcement operation—it’s a historic turning point. Türkiye is
facing its institutional reckoning. A nation that survived a
violent coup attempt, weathered regional upheaval, and beat back
wave after wave of domestic subversion is now taking on its most
entrenched internal threat: the invisible networks that have
metastasized within its governance structure.

This is not about theology. This is not about spiritual
jealousy. This is a purge designed to reclaim the Republic’s
exclusive right to define who wields influence—and how.

The Prologue, Not the Epilogue

The arrests are not the end of the story. They are just the
opening chapter. What comes next is the real battle: the forensic
dismantling of off-shore financial webs, the purge of bureaucracies
infiltrated by ideologically loyal operatives, and, critically, a
national reckoning over the role of religious networks in the life
of a modern secular republic.

The signal from the top could not be clearer: Türkiye will no
longer share authority with orders, sects, or foundations that
multiply loyalties faster than they submit to law. This is not
about repression—it’s about returning to first principles: that a
state is not a patchwork of side deals, but a sovereign structure
endowed with will, tools, and the right to govern.

Now comes not just the purge, but the reset. In a climate of
mounting geopolitical pressure, economic targeting, and soft power
offensives through culture, human rights, and diaspora politics,
Türkiye is choosing the hard path of sovereign reconstruction. It’s
a path full of friction, but one Ankara sees as essential to the
survival of the Republic.

The Süleymancı network is just one face of the parallel state.
Tomorrow, another brotherhood, another foundation, another
ideological syndicate may find itself under scrutiny. That’s no
longer surprising—because Türkiye is no longer a laboratory for
ideological experiments. It is a sovereign actor, reasserting
control over its destiny. And in the new rules of this game,
there’s no longer room for players who won’t play by the state’s

Baku Network