---
title: "Victor Osimhen transfer twist as £59m decision made on Man Utd target"
date: "2025-06-06T00:00:00+03:00"
draft: false
categories: ["news"]
tags: []
image: "https://i2-prod.mirror.co.uk/article35301125.ece/ALTERNATES/s1200b/0_GettyImages-2215993635.jpg"
author: "Jacob Leeks"
description: ""
source_url: "https://www.mirror.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/victor-osimhen-man-utd-napoli-35345891"
source_name: "Unknown Source" # Front Matter'a source_name eklendi
---
Victor Osimhen has rejected a move to Al-Hilal in a potential boost to Manchester United's hopes of signing the striker. Osimhen spent the season on loan at Galatasaray, firing them to the Turkish Super Lig and Turkish Cup double. He also previously starred for Napoli as they won the Serie A title back in 2023. But his career in Naples is over, with the Italian side keen to sell him this summer as he enters the final year of his contract. Gala are keen to bring him back to Istanbul on a permanent basis. But they faced a serious challenge from Hilal, who have cash to spent after missing out on the Saudi Pro League title this season. Hilal have just appointed Simeone Inzaghi as their new manager, fresh from leading Inter Milan to their second Champions League final in three years. They are able to call on bigger spending power than their Turkish rivals. But United are also sizing up a move for the 26-year-old as they continue to rebuild Ruben Amorim's squad. And in a huge boost for their hopes, it appears that Hilal's move for the Nigerian international is dead in the water. Hilal had submitted a £59million bid to Napoli for Osimhen and were waiting for the Italian club to respond. They were also prepared to hand the striker a bumper salary of £21m per year plus bonuses. But Osimhen has now rejected that, dashing Hilal's dreams of bringing the striker to the Middle East. Galatasaray have now moved into pole position and are trying to complete a deal. They have offered Osimhen a salary of £17.7m per year and are racing to get him to put pen to paper. Gala boss Okan Buruk has admitted he expects to count on Osimhen in his squad next season. Buruk said recently: \\"Osimhen is important... He is positive and loves this place very much. He did not say goodbye to anyone after the last match. If he had the intention of leaving, his behavior would have been different. I see him as 51 percent staying.\\" Osimhen himself insisted towards the end of the season that he had made a decision on his future. But the striker refused to give a definitive answer as he looked to help Gala wrap up the title. “The rumour is going around about me linked with the Premier League . Of course, when you’re one of the hottest strikers in the world you expect this type of thing, it’s one of the biggest and best leagues in the world,\\" he said. “For me, I’m with Napoli, signed a new contract and enjoying my time there with the team, at the end of the season I’ve already made up my mind, I already know what I want to do in my career. “Since I’ve started, I’ve been the one making my own decisions on everything and it’s working out well for me. I already know the next step I want to take so for now I just want to finish the season strong.” Join our new MAN UTD WhatsApp community and receive your daily dose of Manchester United content from Mirror Football. We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don't like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you're curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.